Here we have the Eliza chatbot.
If I'm gonna make that a little bit
shorter so that you see it sooner.
You can see Eliza is now talking to us
below the screen, and I have to scroll it,
Every time I get a new response from her.
And that's really not
a good user experience.
So we're gonna use beforeUpdate and
afterUpdate to make sure that
the scroll position is kept current
with the contents of the chat window.
So first thing we're gonna do is
create a new value called autoscroll.
And this is gonna reflect whether the chat
is currently already scrolled up.
Because what we don't want is for
the scroll to happen
automatically if you're not
the latest point in the chat.
So in here, in the beforeUpdate function,
we're gonna determine whether or
not that is in fact the case.
I'm just gonna copy and
paste the whole thing over, and
then we'll talk about what's in it.
So if we have a reference to the div,
because this function will
run before first run.
So we need to check that
div does in fact exist.
Then if the combined value of the div's
offset height and its scroll top
is greater than the scroll height of the
element minus a little bit of a threshold,
20 pixels, that is, then we consider
it to be in autoscroll mode.
So if we're not at the end of the chat,
we're not in autoscroll.
But if we are at the end of the chat,
then we want the autoscroll to happen.
Then once the update has happened,
assuming that autoscroll is enabled,
then we wanna scroll the chat
window right to the bottom.
So again, just gonna copy that into here.
And then it scrolls as the chat continues.
There's one more life cycle function that,
again, you're not gonna use very often.
But when you do need it,
it's pretty handy, and it's called tick.
And it's unlike onmount, ondestroy,
beforeUpdate, and afterUpdate
in that you don't just run it at the start
of the component's instantiation.
You can run it anytime, you don't need
to call it inside the script block,
you can call it inside event handlers,
for example.
What it does is, it returns a promise that
resolves as soon as any pending state
changes have been applied to the DOM.
Or if there aren't any pending state
changes, it'll resolve immediately.
And the reason that that's necessary
is that when you update component
state in Svelte, it doesn't immediately
update the contents of the DOM.
It batches changes together for
the sake of efficiency.
In that way, it's gonna wait
until the end of the event loop.
So if you have a value that
changes on this line and
another value that changes on this line,
it]s not gonna do a DOM update in between
them because that would be
a little bit inefficient.
So it's gonna wait until the next
microtask, and it's after that microtask
that we wanna wait for,
in order to do any follow-up work.
And I'm gonna give you an example
of what I mean by that.
In this text area here,
we can toggle whether or
not the selection is uppercased,
like that.
And every time I press it,
the selection gets cleared out,
because that's just what happens
with text area elements.
When you change the value, it's not
gonna preserve the previous selection.
But we can fix that because the tick
handler is gonna give us an opportunity to
reapply the selection after the value
has been put into the text area.
So I'm gonna import that from Svelte,
import tick from svelte.
And then inside this keydown handler
which is applied to the text area,
we're screening out any events
that aren't Tab presses.
If it is a Tab,
we're preventing the event default,
because otherwise, we would send
the focus to a different element.
And we're grabbing the selection state
of the text area, and then we're
figuring out what the replacement text for
the entire text area should be.
So we're taking everything
before the selection,
keeping everything inside the selection,
inverting the case.
And then taking everything
from after the selection,
and then we're just putting all
that back into the text variable.
But this bit here where we're reapplying
the selection start and the selection end,
that's not working.
Because it applies that, and
then the DOM updates, because this and
this happen before the DOM is
affected by the state change.
So I'm gonna replace this
line here with an await tick.
And now when I select this text and toggle
it, it's gonna preserve my selection.
So I can toggle it back and
forth like that.
So this is pretty niche, this isn't a
thing that you're gonna need to do a lot.
But sometimes you will, and
you'll be thankful that it exists.
>> So tick is blocking the DOM for
you to update,
is that what's happening, and
then it updates the DOM again?
>> No, so what's happening is,
when there's a state change pending,
a promise is generated.
As soon as a state change happens
inside your Svelte application,
a promise is generated that represents
the end of the event loop, essentially,
and then any other work happens,
and then that promise resolves.
And it's that promise that you're getting
a reference to when you call tick.
So it's not actually affecting anything,
it's literally just a timing thing.
It's just waiting for
the end of the update cycle to happen so
that you can do any follow-up work.
>> So
is it like setting a timeout 0 type thing?
>> It's kind of like a setTimeout 0,
except that setTimeout
of 0 visibly happens after
the work has taken place.
So in that previous example,
instead of await tick, we had setTimeout,
and then, Did the work there, like so,
setTimeout 0, then now what we're
probably gonna see is, actually,
you can just kinda see it on some of these
Tabs, you can see it flickering slightly.
I can make it more visible by making
that 100 milliseconds instead.
Do you see that?
So you will get this flickering
effect with setTimeout.
But promises, because of how they work
in the event loop and everything,
The promise resolves before
the browser repaints the DOM.
So you can do everything in a way that
isn't gonna cause flickering and whatnot.
>> I had a question about how many
magical type of bindings you have.
Cuz it seems like the two most
magical are the media element
working on setTimeout instead of values.
And then the clientx and
clienty, injecting an iframe.
Are there third-party plugins and
stuff that do more magical things?
>> No, there's no binding plugins.
It's all gotta be baked into
the framework because the compiler needs
to understand it.
We do have some others,
which we'll come on to later.
We have window bindings, for example,
you can bind to the width and
height of the window and
the scroll position.
And we wanna add more,
we wanna add scroll bindings for
arbitrary elements and stuff like that.
Anything that's useful,
because we're a compiler, we can do that.
If there's something that is useful to one
person, then we can include it because
it's only gonna get included in their
application, rather than everyone else's.
>> If you use it, then the code
compiles or gets added for it.
If you don't use it, it doesn't
affect the user of the framework.
>> Yeah.
>> Really cool.